The course format will consist of lectures, paper and project presentations by student, and discussions. Each student will present on or more papers during the semester and complete a final project. Participation in discussions will be an important component of the grade.

Thin plate spline, or TPS for short, is an interpolation method that finds a "minimally bended" smooth surface that passes through all given points. TPS of 3 control points is a plane, more than 3 is generally a curved surface and less than 3 is undefined.
The name "Thin plate" comes from the fact that a TPS more or less simulates how a thin metal plate would behave if it was forced through the same control points.

Thin plate spines are particularly popular in representing shape transformations, for example, image morphing or shape detection/matching.

The LU-decomposition used in this example is a generic, direct solver that doesn't scale well as the size of matrices grow large: it is O(N^3). For large sets of control points, there are optimized(and much more complicated) methods for solving the Thin Plate Spline problem(or more generally, RBF or radial basis Function interpolation). They are based on iterative numerical solvers(like Gauss-Seidel or the conjugate gradient method) and the assumption that the effect of the control points is mainly local(i.e.  only a few neighbouring control points contribute majorly to interpolating a given point). These approximations scale well, in the order of O(NlogN)(albeit with pretty high constants).

For a good, readable introduction to these methods(preconditioning, Radial basis functions: theory and implementations).


The Nvidia Geforce3 has four texture units, which means a total of four textures can be blended onto a single polygon.


MinGW, a contraction of "Minimalist GNU for Windows", is a minimalist development environment for native Microsoft Windows applications.

MinGW provides a complete Open Source programming toll set which is suitable for the development of native Microsoft-Windows applications. and which do not depend on any 3rd-party C-Runtime DLLs.

OpenGL origin

The birth of photography freed painter from their duty as documenters, and allowed them to explore a more subjective approach to painting, one in which they could present their response to the world rather than its raw appearance. The impressionism movement began at least partly as a response to the new-found realism of photography.

A venerable and popular image abstraction technique is painterly rendering using colored strokes. The idea is presumed inspired by an idealization of a real painting process.

A major component of NPR research is concerned with recreating th appearance of traditional artistic media. of course, we don't want to reproduce the dynamics of these media exactly -- computer simulations gain their power from the extent to which tehy depart from reality.

We first select interactively with Snakes(Kass, et al, 1998) some typical brush samples from some paintings of Van Gogh to construct a brush library for different class of objects, such as the sky, trees, hand, etc.


Painterly Animation with Video Content Extraction
quad-tree 等 划分空间的方法
Brushstroke Control from Image Saliency
primal sketch


using diffusion curves, the smooth interior can be computed by solving a Poisson equation with the curves as boundary constrains.


Creating Chinese ink paintings usually requires great skill, concentration, and years of training. 


For brush modeling, procedural and example-based methods have been proposed, and some can work fairly well. But for stroke placement, progress is less satisfactory. Existing methods simply place strokes sequentially in a greedy manner, or do it by optimizing complex energy functions. In neither way is it convenient to map intuitive perceptual characteristics to rendering parameters, for example vibrant colors and gesture strokes which appear in many vincent van goph's paintings. This makes them less convenient to customize and thus unfriendly for interactive usage.


We can conquer the noise problem easily by using some task to filter the holes or outlier. In conclusion, it is obvious that the most serious problem of region growing is the power and time consuming.


并查集   random walk  graph cut  AAM  好多东西要复习，学习啊。看来关键还是得学基础，修炼内功。
minimum spanning tree    shortest path


In this Phase, facial components such as nose, eyes, etc., are localized using the active appearance model.



Ramer-Douglas-Peucker algorithm for reducing the number of points.

Analysis of Gray Level Corner detection

Good Features to Track CVPR. 1994

SUSAN: A New approach to Low Level Image

In mathematical optimization, Dantzig's simplex algorithm(or simplex method) is a popular algorithm for linear programming. The name of the the algorithm is derived from the concept of a simplex and was suggested by Motzkin. Simplices are not actually used in the method, but on interpretation of it is that it operates on simplical cones.

matrix transpose


Wind, rain, rushed morning preparations, or severe sleep deprivation brought on by siggraph deadlines, can all affect the details of one's hair.


Our system creates an anisotropic diffusion-like effect by interactively applying a separable approximation to bilateral filter.

[image filtering]
It means that for each pixel(x, y) in the source image(normally rectangular), its neighborhood is considered and used to compute the response.


